# Friday Activity Day

## Method Introductions

- Communication
- Ethnography as unique
- Application
- How to ask questions
- How to listen
- Learning skills and transferring skills
- Eliminate personal bias?
- Ideology
- Critical lens!

Great quote:
- "There are no pencil sharpeners in the field"

## Reviewing the 10 Rules

- I'm not going to write them again...

## Activity & Discussion

- Ethnographic fieldwork is useful to defining a problem when it is not yet clear. 
  - I agree:
    - Building rapport gives you more opportunities to learn new things.
    - Ethnography can give you ability to chat about structural issues that are unclear.
    - Allows for adjusting on the fly because **you are not asking the question correctly**. 
  - I disagree:
    - I have a limited understanding of ethnography at this point, but my 
      understanding is that ethnography needs to be grounded in theory. In that case, 
      it would make sense to me for a problem to be defined ahead of time. 
    - You will not get funded if you don't have an idea
- Ethnographic fieldwork helps in understanding complex problems.
  - I agree:
    - One of the areas where quantitative research fails is in addressing 
      nuance. Qualitative research attempts to address this through various methodologies, 
      but I think ethnography is especially suited to understanding complex problems as it 
      allows for adaptation throughout a study. 
  - I disagree:
- Ethnographic fieldwork is a tool for identifying social networks.
  - I agree
  - I disagree:
    - There are hidden social networks (substance abuse)
